hi I never even saw it coming in 2021 I
emailed seic about the possibility of
bringing together their amazing power
supplies and noct toas class leading
cooling fans to create an ultimate LT
Edition power supply they rejected my
proposal and yet 3 years later here it
is in fairness the reason they turned me
down was they were already working on it
but I still can't help wondering about
what could have been in and wondering
what took them so long as it turns out
the answer is oh the usual no to of
things because rather than simply
chucking in their fan and calling it a
day they obsessed over details that
would make just about anyone else's eyes
completely glaze over and they ended up
with something that might become the
go-to power supply for quiet enthusiasts
they're also showing off a pumpless
thermos siphon prototype a no for real
we're really done this time successor to
the legendary en hd15 CPU Cooler second
generation NFA series fans and a desk
fan kit with a price tag that has even
brand loyalists asking have you guys
completely lost Linus's segue to his
sponsor build Redux they make it easy to
get into the world of PC gaming just
pick your games see the performance that
you can expect and the pros at build
Redux will build the PC for you check
them out at the link in the video
description
[Music]
across its entire operating range the
prime tx600 noctu Edition is quieter
than SE Sonic's solo efforts and not
just by a little bit the cutout design
alone accounts for about two DB of
improvement by avoiding any situation
where the fan blade can run parallel to
the grill and as for the other 6 to 8 DB
that comes from a very unconventional
choice you see the regular edition of
this power supply uses a 135 mm fan and
everybody knows that larger fans are
good because they can move the same
amount of air at lower noise levels but
noctua Engineers aren't paid to do what
everybody knows they're paid to make
damn good and sure and what they found
was that the densely packed internal
components of a premium power supply
create such high levels of back pressure
that their 120 mm NF 12 Fen would be a
superior Choice other than that it's
basically the same titanium efficiency
rated unit that you've come to know and
love with ATX 3.1 compliance and uh I
guess they also threw in some brown
accented cables for good measure solid
work guys slow but solid and that's
going to be a bit of a pattern here cuz
once again noctu is showing their second
generation nhd15 they've had the heat
sink component done for some time now
but the second generation NF A14 fan
that contributes to much of the
performance uplift has been kicking
their Collective butts so why don't we
talk about that first you see in order
to push air through a dense fin array
like on a heat sink or a radiator you
need to overcome a considerable amount
of back pressure now they didn't want to
resort to a thicker profile like some of
their competitors so once you've
optimized your blade geometry and added
centrifugal turbulators to your Hub one
of the only options left is to explore
how to reduce the leakage that comes
back around the outside of your blades
the only problem is that once you start
getting the blades this close to the
frame the small details start to matter
a lot now they had already addressed the
fan itself flattening out and stretching
slightly as it was spinning but what
they found was that the frame was
deforming over time from the mounting
pressure of either radiator screws on
the Square versions or even from their
own wire Clips on the round ones that
ship with their heat sinks not right
away mind you but at elevated
temperatures and over a span of 10 plus
years it could which is why it's been
such a nightmare to validate the good
news is that with some frame
reinforcement and tweaks to both their
wire clips and the corner grommets for
for their radiator fans they were able
to overcome this on both round and
square versions without resorting to
Exotic materials like liquid Crystal
polymer plastic which is bringing the
expected price of these down from 45 to
uh4 us thanks noctua back to the heat
sink though or should I say heat sinks
they are announcing three versions of
the second gen nhd15 that sparked an
uncharacteristically intense disc
between me and Jacob generally we get
along pretty well but I'm not a huge fan
of this move and I'm going to explain
why in a moment first let's explain
their side of the story the lineup will
include three separate versions with
varying levels of flatness on the base a
standard one which will be slightly
convex at the base producing slightly
elevated mounting pressure in the middle
a more convex one to increase pressure
in the middle and a less convex one to
decrease pressure in the middle of the
base now noctu explains that for most of
their customers they still recommend the
standard configuration but for modern
Intel platforms they've found that over
time there is a tendency for the top of
the CPU to become significantly concave
which measurably harms the performance
of flat or even slightly convex heat
sinks this degradation can be mitigated
somewhat by using a washer mod to reduce
the the pressure of Intel's own CPU
retention mechanism but for CPUs that
have already been deformed the best
option they found was to bow out the
base of the heat sink hence the HBC
version they also said that if you
suspect your CPU has been heavily
deformed already you may want to try
combining a lower pressure washer mod
with their High convexity cooler as for
AMD who spreads out their logic and
their IOD under a much larger heat
spreader they found that if you don't
want to use their offset Mount which
moves the cooler down a little bit a
flatter but still not totally flat
approach optimizes contact across a
larger area contributing again to a
measurable performance Improvement which
all sounds extremely reasonable I mean
who wouldn't want better performance
what is your problem Linus I guess it's
just that I've seen this movie before
and I worry that noctua is falling into
the same trap as the water cooling
companies did back in the mid 2000s
inspired by modders who experimented
with thicker O-rings in their CPU blocks
manufacturers began bowing out the
copper bases of their cold plates
kicking off sort of an arms race for who
could best Target the die area of a CPU
with a super high press contact point
the resulting performance was great very
similar to what noctua is showing off
here but what everyone learned over time
was that CP U designs change and today's
contact optimization is tomorrow's
contact
misalignment and one of the things that
I admire so much about this company is
that a noct to a cooler is never
obsolete we demonstrated this recently
when we installed their first ever
product on a modern platform with a Moun
kit that they still provide to their
customers for free and we got pretty
good results this indefinite support for
their legacy products encouraged is a
one-time investment in a admittedly
expensive but highquality product that
can be reused many times reducing waste
and I'm sorry but I just don't see how a
platform optimized base that is a little
better today but maybe not as good
tomorrow is aligned with noct's values
with all that said I understand the
pressure that they're under I mean the
competition knows that reviewers are
going to be benchmarking coolers on worn
out testbench CPUs and those guys are
going to optimize accordingly and the
average customer can't be expected to
look past who's at the top of a
performance chart or even consider that
they're probably not going to be
overclocking their CPU anyway so I guess
all I can really do is wait and see how
this plays out this time around and hope
that at some point Intel is going to get
their thermal under control so we don't
have to resort to such silliness in
order to tame their Flagship chips ooh
here's something I wouldn't mind
resorting to though I'm super excited
about this like the ice giant cooler
that we've shown you guys before nowi
prototype here is a phase change thermos
siphon but unlike the ice giant it uses
a familiar AO style form factor for good
compatibility and safer shipping in
modern cases it's pumpless using gravity
to feed liquid from the condenser unit
up here o this one down to the bottom of
the CPU and uses capillary action in the
evaporator to enhanced flow drawing that
liquid toward the drier areas where it
will be turn to a gas and make its way
naturally upward toward the condenser
again they're targeting similar
performance to AI coolers on the market
either in 240 or 360 mm form factors but
without the noise and reliability issues
that are inherent with the lowcost pumps
that you find in existing water coolers
are they going to be the ones to finally
bring this concept to Market
I sure hope so
eventually bringing us finally to knox's
greatest gift ever to sweaty Gamers a
$100 desk fan in all seriousness though
I think the community backlash about
this thing is kind of undeserved I mean
for one thing knock to a products being
expensive is kind of nothing new and for
another you don't have to buy it and I
don't even mean that in a like well so
what it's expensive you could just not
buy it I mean that the air flow
amplifier add-on thing here that
dramatically increases the effective
cooling range can just be 3D printed
with files that knock to it provides for
you for free and then you can just bolt
it to any fan you want you only really
have to pay them to use this thing if
you really want the fan controller and
oh oh okay that's not made of metal uh
here the cool magnetic mounting base
this is about as consumer friendly an
approach to this product as they
possibly could have taken I mean it's
not like they redirected engineering
resources from NFA 12 Gen 2 to this
thing it's a completely different skill
set and the same goes for the rubber
grommets that are for Hocking a fan on
top of your AV receiver or whatever if
you guys don't like this just make one
yourself using a 3D printing service and
hey while you're at it you can make
yourself a segue to our sponsor
paperlike as we power through the
digital age some of us miss Ye Old pen
and paper for note taking and creative
writing or drawing and with the
paperlike 2.1 iPad screen protector you
can blend together Both Worlds
manufacturer in Switzerland it uses
their exclusive micro bead technology
called Nano dots to emulate the stroke
resistance of paper without sacrificing
screen Clarity in fact paper lake is so
confident in their screen protector they
will offer a free replacement or refund
within 100 days yes 100 days so go check
out paperlike at the link in the
descript description and unleash your
iPad's full potential as a notebook if
you guys enjoyed this video get
subscribed so you can see the results of
a friendly little bet that I have with
Jacob from noctua I was teasing him
about chasing every fraction of a degree
on CPUs you can't even overclock anyway
and he goes well yeah but it's not about
that it's more about the acoustic
benefit at the same temperature so you
can run your fans at a lower RPM and I'm
like okay In fairness you are talking my
language here but I could probably get a
better benefit from some cheap auto
motive panel lining crap from AliExpress
with Haring thermals and uh he said I
guess we're on by the way for those of
you who watched all the way to the end
you get to do something fun you get to
poke fun at the people who actually
think I'm mad about the supposed
betrayal in the intro we continue to
have an excellent relationship with cic
who we appreciate both for their
sponsorship support and outstanding
products and with nocta who continues to
spend no money with us at all like
always yet cheap skates yeah you heard
me
but who we do collaborate occasionally
with out of mutual respect